# DigitalBiology2015BaselineStatistics
Repository for protein corpus, analysis scripts, figures, and results.

##Contents
  * results1
    * nrpdb analysis that was interrupted before completion. Functionally useless.
  * results2
    * nrpdb analysis that was interrupted before completion. Functionally useless.
  * results3 
    * nrpdb analysis done on the research(dot)uchicago(dot)edu machines
    * Contains
      * results3.R
        * RStudio script used to generate 2D figures for final analysis paper. 
      * rfigures
        * 2d figures generated by results3.R
      * radius55 
        * results of running 1/2 or nrpdb files through analyze.py with HBOND_CA_DISTANCE set to 5.5 Angstroms      
      * radius60
        * results of running 1/2 or nrpdb files through analyze.py with HBOND_CA_DISTANCE set to 6.0 Angstroms
      * radius65
        * results of running all of nrpdb files through analyze.py with HBOND_CA_DISTANCE set to 6.5 Angstroms
      * radius70
        * results of running 1/2 or nrpdb files through analyze.py with HBOND_CA_DISTANCE set to 7.0 Angstroms
      * radius75
        * results of running 1/2 or nrpdb files through analyze.py with HBOND_CA_DISTANCE set to 7.5 Angstroms
      * NOTE: in all cases, the names of files that were allowed to run are available in full in perFile_*.csv 
      * NOTE: there are u_* variants of many files, in which atoms that were identical were filtered out. this could happen if multiple models were interpreted as one model, which accounted for ~ 100 total records.
  * results4
    * Results in results3 are insufficient to answer one of the questions posed: what is the probability of an atom being within the desolvation domain of a dehydron? We created a new run on 1/2 of the nrpdb dataset to answer this question by adding the file modeledAtomsInDD_output.csv which contains:
      * modeledUniqueAtomsInDDD, the number of unique atoms within a modeled / randomly sampled hydrogen bond that we treat as a dehydron
      * numNonUniqueAtomsInDDD, the number of non-unique atoms within the same criteria, that is, all the atoms without overlaps filtered out
      * actualUniqueAtomsInDDD, the number of unique atoms within observed dehydrons' desolvation domains
  * showProteinOutput
    * The output of running showProtein.py on various pdb's
  * analyze.py
    * usage (single file) : ./analyze.py protein.pdb 
    * usage (directory) : ./analyze.py directory/
  * showProtein.py
    * usage: ./showProtein protein.pdb [parameters]
      * parameters can be any combination of the following, within certain limits:
        * ticks
          * creates a line plot of averaged residue numbers at which every dehydron is found, every hydrogen bond is found, and every modeled dehydron is found, as well as giving statistics on each distribution
          * NOTE that ticks cannot be run with any 3d plot
        * significance
          * when run with 'ticks' it samples the hydrogen bond list 20 times to generate an average index of dispersion.
        * sampled or model
          * samples the list of hydrogen bonds to create randomly distributed dehydrons. Paints these bonds as green lines between included alpha carbons
        * dehydrons
          * draws actual dehydrons as red lines between two included alpha carbons. 
        * ddd
          * generates desolvation domain radius sized spheres around each alpha carbon included in either sampled or actual dehydrons
        * small 
          * insead of spheres of actual size, draws 2d dots over CA's to more cleanly illustrate their locations
        * hbonds
          * draws blue lines between all non-dehydron hydrogen bonds
        * hbdd
          * draws blue desolvation domains around all non-dehydron hydrogen bonds
        * domains 
          * draw 3d desolvation domains around all the dehydrons and hydrogen bonds. Equivalent to having both ddd and hbdd flags
        * atoms
          * draws all atoms in the protein
      * Experimental / nonfunctional flags
        * captured 
          * displays all atoms that are within a desolvation domain
        * uncaptured
          * displays all atoms that are not within a desolvation domain
          
